feat: add new caching doc (#14510)
artsy/force: docs/caching2.md

## Caching

There are two different layers of caching on Artsy.net, namely:

- Caching at the Relay query level, which happens as users navigate from page to page on the client. This is an entirely client-side cache, and typically configured via the route.

> - Caching at the level of leveraging a [CDN](https://github.com/artsy/metaphysics/blob/1b3940a2387ab0bf308c2ca7b597e40fad015b4d/docs/cdn.md) version of Metaphysics - which has the effect of caching the entire response for a given query.

Reviewer: - Caching at the Metaphyics CDN level, which has...

Since logged-in queries typically always propagate their access token, they will _never_ be cached by the CDN, unless they are opted-in.

For logged-in queries, there is an opt-in directive `@cacheable` that can be added to a query. When present - no access token will be propagated with the request, and the `no-cache` value will not be included - which will allow the CDN to cache this query. This is useful for queries that are not user-specific, and can be cached for all users.

There is also an escape hatch - a query param in the URL: `?nocache=true` - that will force the CDN to bypass the cache and hit Metaphysics directly _despite_ a `@cacheable` directive. This can be useful for a privileged user to see an unpublished page (which we wouldn't want to cache).

Setting/unsetting the `Cache-Control` header, and propagating any `max-age` is accomplished in a Relay middleware: [`System/Relay/middleware/cacheHeaderMiddleware.tsx`](System/Relay/middleware/cacheHeaderMiddleware.tsx).

Un-setting the access token header for `@cacheable` queries is accomplished in a Relay middleware: [`System/Relay/createRelaySSREnvironment.ts`](System/Relay/createRelaySSREnvironment.ts).

> #### Logged out:

Reviewer: #suggestion -- We should start with logged out and then move to logged in. This (gently) exposes devs to the subject. From there we can layer on more info with logged in

By default, we typically cache all queries, unless otherwise configured with `cacheConfig: { force: true }` or `serverCacheTTL: 0`. How this works is:

- User visits a page and Relay issues a GraphQL request.
- Unless otherwise specified - this request will not contain an access token header _or_ a `no-cache` header value and so can be cached by the CDN (with an optional `max-age`).
- As user navigates on the client in SPA mode, queries continue to be issued that can be cached by the CDN (unless otherwise specified).

### Configuring Cache

At the router level, we can configure things in a few different ways:

1. Never cache, period:

```tsx
const myRouter = [
  {
    path: "/some-app",
    // Tell relay network layer to never cache. This flows down to setting
    // a `no-cache` header when making the CDN request, thus bypassing that cache as well.
    cacheConfig: {
      force: true,
    },
  },
]
```

> 2. When logged out, never cache on the server, always cache on the client. This ensure users will always receive fresh data when they first visit a page, but once visited, page will be cached on the client for a given session. (Timely pages like `/auction/:id` apply this strategy.)

Reviewer: When logged out or logged in, never ...

```tsx
const myRouter = [
  {
    path: "/some-app",

>     // Tell redis to never cache queries on the server. We still cache on

Reviewer: redis mention

    // client-side SPA transitions at the relay level (only during the session).

>     // Only applies while logged out!

Reviewer: can delete this line

    // This flows down to setting a `no-cache` header when making the CDN request, thus bypassing that cache as well.
    serverCacheTTL: 0,
  },
]
```

3. Configure the server-side TTL cache time for a given route:

```tsx
const myRouter = [
  {
    path: "/some-app",
    // This flows down to a `max-age` value in the CDN request as well.
    serverCacheTTL: 24 * 60 * 60, // 24 hours,
  },
]

> ```

Reviewer: We'll want to add a `4.` example showing how we  can annotate route-level queries (and query renderers) with the `@cacheable` directive

> By default, the value of `serverCacheTTL` falls back to our `GRAPHQL_CACHE_TTL` env config, typically set to 1 hour.

Reviewer: This no longer applies -- might be worth mentioning how we have default fallbacks in the worker code in MP and perhaps link over to that line

Author: I'll update to point out the diff, but that ENV var `GRAPHQL_CACHE_TTL` _is_ still (optionally as there's a default) used for configuration for the Relay cache in https://github.com/artsy/force/blob/69a16ffca38d72e4cbaa604a56fbcb6ba18901e9/src/System/Relay/createRelaySSREnvironment.ts#L126

Reviewer: Ah yah, i just mean the `serverCacheTTL` part. That's configured in the worker now. So if we keep it, we can update to mention that it only applies to the client

## Caching

There are two different layers of caching on Artsy.net, namely:

- Caching at the Relay query level, which happens as users navigate from page to page on the client. This is an entirely client-side cache, and typically configured via the route. We will refer to this going forward as 'Relay caching'.
- Caching at the [Metaphysics CDN](https://github.com/artsy/metaphysics/blob/1b3940a2387ab0bf308c2ca7b597e40fad015b4d/docs/cdn.md) level - which has the effect of caching the entire response for a given query. We will refer to this going forward as 'CDN caching'.

For both of these caching layers, there are several different configurations that can be used/combined to achieve desired behavior.

### General Cache Behavior

#### Logged out:

> By default, we typically cache (at both layers) all queries for logged-out visitors, unless otherwise opted-out with `cacheConfig: { force: true }`. There is also a `serverCacheTTL: 0` - which has the effect of skipping the CDN cache, (so the initial request will always hit Metaphysics) - but subsequently Relay caching will be enabled. There are also certain client-side queries made using Relay's `fetchQuery` - which implicitly _adds_ a `force: true` configuration to the query, thus skipping the cache as well. For queries made using `fetchQuery` - you need to add the `force: false` directive explicitly in order to cache. The important thing to remember is: **everything is cached by default unless opted-out (and there are two ways to opt-out, both layers via `force: true`, or just the CDN layer via `serverCacheTTL: 0`)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, we typically cache (at both layers) all queries for logged-out visitors, unless otherwise opted-out with `cacheConfig: { force: true }`. There is also a `serverCacheTTL: 0` (set on the route config) which has the effect of skipping the CDN cache so the initial request will always hit Metaphysics, while leaving client-side caching enabled. There are also certain client-side queries made using Relay's `fetchQuery` - which implicitly _adds_ a `force: true` configuration to the query, thus skipping the cache as well. For queries made using `fetchQuery` - you need to add the `force: false` directive explicitly in order to cache. The important thing to remember is: **everything is cached by default unless opted-out (and there are two ways to opt-out, both layers via `force: true`, or just the CDN layer via `serverCacheTTL: 0`)**.
```

## Caching

There are two different layers of caching on Artsy.net, namely:

- Caching at the Relay query level, which happens as users navigate from page to page on the client. This is an entirely client-side cache, and typically configured via the route. We will refer to this going forward as 'Relay caching'.
- Caching at the [Metaphysics CDN](https://github.com/artsy/metaphysics/blob/1b3940a2387ab0bf308c2ca7b597e40fad015b4d/docs/cdn.md) level - which has the effect of caching the entire response for a given query. We will refer to this going forward as 'CDN caching'.

For both of these caching layers, there are several different configurations that can be used/combined to achieve desired behavior.

### General Cache Behavior

#### Logged out:

> By default, we typically cache (at both layers) all queries for logged-out visitors, unless otherwise opted-out with `cacheConfig: { force: true }` or `serverCacheTTL: 0`. There are also certain client-side queries made using Relay's `fetchQuery` - which implicitly _adds_ a `force: true` configuration to the query, thus skipping the cache as well. For queries made using `fetchQuery` - you need to add the `force: false` directive explicitly in order to cache. The important thing to remember is: **everything is cached by default unless opted-out**.

Reviewer: ... or `serverCacheTTL: 0`, set on the route.

Author: Yes, but that's listed as one of the opt-outs a couple of sentences prior, so figured there's no need to list the opt-outs.

Although maybe the better clarification is to mention up here the nuance of `serverCacheTTL: 0` - that it only applies to the CDN caching layer - Relay caching is still in effect for these (whereas Relay caching is _skipped_ for `force: true`)

Reviewer: The first time `serverCacheTTL` is mentioned is here, so thinking about this from the perspective of a user who has never been exposed to caching before, they'll see `serverCacheTTL` and not understand. Hence the idea that we add the ", on the route" to clarify

Reviewer: (sorry, i forgot to put that first comment in quotes to indicate i was suggesting a copy update)
